# Incident report: Network attack

Network attack analysis allows understanding the nature, origin, and impact of threats that affect the availability and security of business services.
In this activity, a scenario will be addressed in which a company client experiences a service interruption while trying to access the corporate website. The goal will be to identify the probable cause of the interruption, explain how the attack occurred, and detail the negative impact it had on the website.

## Scenario

You work as a security analyst for a travel agency that advertises sales and promotions on the company’s website. The employees of the company regularly access the company’s sales webpage to search for vacation packages their customers might like. 

One afternoon, you receive an automated alert from your monitoring system indicating a problem with the web server. You attempt to visit the company’s website, but you receive a connection timeout error message in your browser.

You use a packet sniffer to capture data packets in transit to and from the web server. You notice a large number of TCP SYN requests coming from an unfamiliar IP address. The web server appears to be overwhelmed by the volume of incoming traffic and is losing its ability to respond to the abnormally large number of SYN requests. You suspect the server is under attack by a malicious actor. 

You take the server offline temporarily so that the machine can recover and return to a normal operating status. You also configure the company’s firewall to block the IP address that was sending the abnormal number of SYN requests. You know that your IP blocking solution won’t last long, as an attacker can spoof other IP addresses to get around this block. You need to alert your manager about this problem quickly and discuss the next steps to stop this attacker and prevent this problem from happening again. You will need to be prepared to tell your boss about the type of attack you discovered and how it was affecting the web server and employees.

## Attack type identification

* A _DoS attack_ is a possible explanation for the connection timeout error message from the site.
* The [logs](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1enpRzrIao3J2Lp2tOI0hmu1Cu7D7CjLGhFAiTiR9J64/template/preview?gid=218501934#gid=218501934) from the Wireshark tool show that the web server stopped responding after receiving a large number of SYN packets.
* With this information, it can be determined that the event was a _SYN flood attack_.

## How is the attack causing the website's malfunction
When users attempt to establish a connection with a web server, network protocols are used to describe the order of delivery and structure of the data. The Transmission Control Protocol, or TCP, allows two devices to establish a connection and transmit data using the three-way handshake, a process consisting of the following steps:

| Step              | Message | Description |
| :----------------: | :------: | ---- |
| 1        |   `SYN`   | The client sends a SYN packet to the server, requesting a connection. |
| 2           |   `SYN/ACK`   | The server responds to the request with a SYN/ACK packet, acknowledging receipt of the client's SYN and requesting confirmation of the connection.|
| 3    |  `ACK`   | The client sends an ACK packet to the server, acknowledging receipt of the SYN/ACK sent by the server and establishing the connection. |

* During the review of the information obtained from Wireshark, it was found that a large number of SYN packets were sent simultaneously. This slowed down the traffic to such an extent that the request could not be executed and overloaded the server's resources, leaving no resources available to handle legitimate TCP connection requests.
* The logs indicate that the server received many SYN requests from the IP address 203.0.113.0, which means that only one source was used ***(that is a DoS attack)*** overloading the server and preventing it from receiving more visitors. As a result, users attempting to access the website received a connection timeout message.
