# Incident report: OS hardening

Operating system hardening analysis provides insight into the level of protection existing in computer systems and how this influences the security and availability of the services provided by the company. In this activity, we will address a scenario in which the company's website homepage, yummyrecipesforme.com, presents a security issue when loaded by visitors. The objective will be to identify the probable cause of this incident, explain how the problem occurred, and detail the negative impact it had on the website.

## Scenario

You are a cybersecurity analyst for yummyrecipesforme.com, a website that sells recipes and cookbooks. A former employee has decided to lure users to a fake website with malware. 

The former employee/ hacker executed a brute force attack to gain access to the web host. They repeatedly entered several known default passwords for the administrative account until they correctly guessed the right one. After they obtained the login credentials, they were able to access the admin panel and change the website’s source code. They embedded a javascript function in the source code that prompted visitors to download and run a file upon visiting the website. After embedding the malware, the hacker changed the password to the administrative account. When customers download the file, they are redirected to a fake version of the website that contains the malware. 

Several hours after the attack, multiple customers emailed yummyrecipesforme’s helpdesk. They complained that the company’s website had prompted them to download a file to access free recipes. The customers claimed that, after running the file, the address of the website changed and their personal computers began running more slowly. 

In response to this incident, the website owner tries to log in to the admin panel but is unable to, so they reach out to the website hosting provider. You and other cybersecurity analysts are tasked with investigating this security event.

To address the incident, you create a sandbox environment to observe the suspicious website behavior. You run the network protocol analyzer tcpdump, then type in the URL for the website, yummyrecipesforme.com. As soon as the website loads, you are prompted to download an executable file to update your browser. You accept the download and allow the file to run. You then observe that your browser redirects you to a different URL, greatrecipesforme.com, which contains the malware.  

The logs show the following process:

1. The browser initiates a DNS request: It requests the IP address of the yummyrecipesforme.com URL from the DNS server.
2. The DNS replies with the correct IP address. 
3. The browser initiates an HTTP request: It requests the yummyrecipesforme.com webpage using the IP address sent by the DNS server.
4. The browser initiates the download of the malware.
5. The browser initiates a DNS request for greatrecipesforme.com.
6. The DNS server responds with the IP address for greatrecipesforme.com.
7. The browser initiates an HTTP request to the IP address for greatrecipesforme.com.

A senior analyst confirms that the website was compromised. The analyst checks the source code for the website. They notice that javascript code had been added to prompt website visitors to download an executable file. Analysis of the downloaded file found a script that redirects the visitors’ browsers from yummyrecipesforme.com to greatrecipesforme.com. 

The cybersecurity team reports that the web server was impacted by a brute force attack. The disgruntled hacker was able to guess the password easily because the admin password was still set to the default password. Additionally, there were no controls in place to prevent a brute force attack. 

Your job is to document the incident in detail, including identifying the network protocols used to establish the connection between the user and the website.  You should also recommend a security action to take to prevent brute force attacks in the future.

## How to read the tcpdump log

| Step | Description |
|:---:|---|
| 1 | 14:18:32.192571  IP ***your.machine.52444***  > ***dns.google.domain:***  35084+ A? ***yummyrecipesforme.com***. (24) <br><br> The first section of the DNS & HTTP traffic log file shows the source computer **(your.machine.52444)** using port **52444** to send a DNS resolution request to the DNS server **(dns.google.domain)** for the destination URL **(yummyrecipesforme.com)**  |
| 2 | 14:18:32.204388 IP ***dns.google.domain*** > ***your.machine.52444:*** 35084 1/0/0 A ***203.0.113.22*** (40) <br><br> Then the reply comes back from the DNS server to the source computer with the IP address of the destination URL **(203.0.113.22)**. |
| 3 | 14:18:36.786501 IP **your.machine.36086 > yummyrecipesforme.com.http: Flags [S]**, seq 2873951608, win 65495, options [mss 65495,sackOK,TS val 3302576859 ecr 0,nop,wscale 7], length 0 <br><br> The source computer sends a connection request (**Flags [S]**) from the source computer (**your.machine.36086**) using port **36086** directly to the destination (**yummyrecipesforme.com.http**). The **.http** suffix is the port number; *http* is commonly associated with port **80**. |
| 4 | 14:18:36.786517 IP yummyrecipesforme.com.http > your.machine.36086: **Flags [S.]**, seq 3984334959, ack 2873951609, win 65483, options [mss 65495,sackOK,TS val 3302576859 ecr 3302576859,nop,wscale 7], length 0 <br><br> The reply shows the destination acknowledging it received the connection request (**Flags [S.]**). The communication between the source and the intended destination continues for about 2 minutes, according to the timestamps between this block (**14:18**) and the next DNS resolution request. |
| 5 | TCP Flag codes include: <br> Flags [S]  - Connection **S**tart <br> Flags [F]  - Connection **F**inish <br> Flags [P]  - Data **P**ush <br> Flags [R]  - Connection **R**eset <br> Flags [.]  - Acknowledgment. 

## Tcpdump

| Traffic log |
|---|
| 14:18:32.192571 IP your.machine.52444 > dns.google.domain: 35084+ A? yummyrecipesforme.com. (24)  |
| 14:18:32.204388 IP dns.google.domain > your.machine.52444: 35084 1/0/0 A203.0.113.22 (40)  |
| 14:18:36.786501 IP your.machine.36086 > yummyrecipesforme.com.http: Flags [S], seq 2873951608, win 65495, options [mss 65495,sackOK,TS val 3302576859 ecr 0,nop,wscale 7], length 0 |
| 14:18:36.786517 IP yummyrecipesforme.com.http > your.machine.36086: Flags [S.], seq 3984334959, ack 2873951609, win 65483, options [mss 65495,sackOK,TS val 3302576859 ecr 3302576859,nop,wscale 7], length 0 |
| 14:18:36.786529 IP your.machine.36086 > yummyrecipesforme.com.http: Flags[.], ack 1, win 512, options [nop,nop,TS val 3302576859 ecr 3302576859], length 0 |
| 14:18:36.786589 IP your.machine.36086 > yummyrecipesforme.com.http: Flags [P.], seq 1:74, ack 1, win 512, options [nop,nop,TS val 3302576859 ecr3302576859], length 73: HTTP: GET / HTTP/1.1 |
| 14:18:36.786595 IP yummyrecipesforme.com.http > your.machine.36086: Flags[.], ack 74, win 512, options [nop,nop,TS val 3302576859 ecr 3302576859], length 0 | <br>
...<a lot of traffic on the port 80>... 
| 14:20:32.192571 IP your.machine.52444 > dns.google.domain: 21899+ A?greatrecipesforme.com. (24) |
| 14:20:32.204388 IP dns.google.domain > your.machine.52444: 21899 1/0/0 A192.0.2.17 (40) |
| 14:25:29.576493 IP your.machine.56378 > greatrecipesforme.com.http: Flags[S], seq 1020702883, win 65495, options [mss 65495,sackOK,TS val 3302989649ecr 0,nop,wscale 7], length 0 |
| 14:25:29.576510 IP greatrecipesforme.com.http > your.machine.56378: Flags[S.], seq 1993648018, ack 1020702884, win 65483, options [mss 65495,sackOK,TSval 3302989649 ecr 3302989649,nop,wscale 7], length 0 |
| 14:25:29.576524 IP your.machine.56378 > greatrecipesforme.com.http: Flags[.], ack 1, win 512, options [nop,nop,TS val 3302989649 ecr 3302989649], length 0 |
| 14:25:29.576590 IP your.machine.56378 > greatrecipesforme.com.http: Flags[P.], seq 1:74, ack 1, win 512, options [nop,nop,TS val 3302989649 ecr3302989649], length 73: HTTP: GET / HTTP/1.1 |
| 14:25:29.576597 IP greatrecipesforme.com.http > your.machine.56378: Flags[.], ack 74, win 512, options [nop,nop,TS val 3302989649 ecr 3302989649], length 0 | <br>
...<a lot of traffic on the port 80>...

## Analysis: 
### Section 1: Identify the network protocol involved in the incident

The incident was related to the HTTP protocol, which is typically used on port 80. During access to the site yummyrecipesforme.com, it was identified that requests to the web server were using HTTP. By using tcpdump, both DNS (port 53) and HTTP traffic were detected and recorded, showing evidence of the transfer of the malicious file to users’ computers through this protocol. This confirms that the situation took place at the application layer.

### Section 2: Document the incident
Several users reported that when accessing the website, they received a message demanding the download and execution of a file, presented as a browser update or access to new recipes. After performing this action, their computers began to run slowly and they lost access to their accounts. Even the site owner noticed that their administrative account was locked.

To investigate, the cybersecurity team analyzed the site in a secure and isolated environment, using tcpdump to record network traffic. When accepting the download, the browser redirected users to a fake portal that simulated the original site. The logs showed that after connecting to the legitimate site, upon executing the downloaded file, the traffic was abruptly diverted to the malicious page.

The code analysis revealed that the site had been altered to insert malicious software disguised as an update. Since the administrator account was compromised, probably through brute force, the attackers changed the password and locked out all users. The executed file compromised the users' devices and continued spreading, causing further damage.

### Section 3: Recommend one or more remediations for brute force attacks
To strengthen security against brute-force attacks, the team will adopt several strategies, such as preventing the use of old or default passwords and requiring more frequent password changes. This way, even if a password is discovered, the risk of misuse is reduced. Additionally, a two-factor authentication (2FA) system will be established, so users will have to validate themselves not only with their password but also by entering a unique code received via email or phone. Thanks to this method, attackers will have much more difficulty gaining access, since they will need to complete an additional authentication step.
